# Using Scrum along the way
@author Shuwen Sun


Although using Scrum during developing this project has already been discussed in each and every demo, and also in th Final Demo Movie. I would still like to document some experience with our team experiencing.

First of all, using Scrum is hard and tricky. Honestly we came through a lot of troubles to fit in this weird way of collaborating working together. In conclusion, **It Is Totally Worth It**. In my point of view, scrum helps us finish the goal/work we promised and came with the next one. In our case, most of the time we met the goal we planned. But of cause, this is really related to some teammates' work, e.g. some one has to do extra work. I don't think it is the right thing to do but we did. Other than that, I guess everything is probably as close as what is in the "The Agile Manifsto".

Secondly, I would like to document some problems that we met and how we solved them one after another. In the first few sprints, we were not so familiar with Scrum and got troubles with "Sprint meeting" and "15 min stand-up meeting". Sprint meeting was long and boring. We got stuck with what we came up and wasted our time. But afterwards we can handle the Sprint meeting smoothly and efficiently. One basic reason is that, we all got a good hold of the project. After we discuss what we had achieved last sprint, we all knew what was left and what is next in the direction. In this case, sprint meeting became short and to be about only 1 hour.

For the "15 min stand-up meeting", we adopted the idea from our mentor but soon we found out it did not suit us. One key point is, we are always busy or having lot of lectures! During the first few sprint, cases were: we distributed the work, separated into two groupss; but either one teammate in the group finished all the work earlier or the other was extremly busy and can't help with anything. This issue became a serious problem just during the spring break. Although we distributed the work to each one and had 2 week sprint plus a whole spring break, workload was not balanced: someone did extra work and someone did not finish what he promised. Two reasons are: lack of experience led to block during working, and not taking the job assigned seriously. After this issue, we instantly moved to the "working together". We constantly work together with 1 to 2 hour as a limit. In this case, we got even better hold of the project - We finished what we planned to do last time and instantly realized what was need to be done next. We can also split into two groups occasionaly, every problem we encountered can be discussed and solved.

Third one is, after few sprints, we found out that we can find out our own pace of steps without the two weeks sprint. By pace of steps, what I mean is we understand our project so well that, we knew what was urgent and what could wait. We also can manipulate the timing in a better way. In some sprints, we managed to do some extra work while working on this sprint, so that complexity of next sprint was reduced. So that we knew we would good for the next sprint demo: we planned this sprint well and finished all the work. As a matter of fact, we achieved goals in almost every sprint and instructors were satisfied with it.

Last but not least, one thing I learned is that in real time, work is measured as complexty. In scrum, we can measure every task in hours or points. Some tasks may be time consuming but not complex, thus measuring it in hours will definately be unnecessary. Things only make sense in points. This also helps a lot during the last two sprints. We both took care of the workloads and the complexity of a sprint.


